















---

## Theories are tricks which are general, but are still tricks.



---

## With clear mind, life goals can be simple.



---

## A simple entity has three parts, input, process, output.

- Simple entity can mean anything, a human, the earth, the universe, a cat, a bacteria, an atom, a particle.
- Input can be sense, process can be think, output can be action.



---

## Data transfer takes time.



---

## Entities can combine into a bigger one.



---

## Feedback time may be very quick, may be slow or never happened.

Quick feedback loop help us understand things quickly.



---

## We get influenced from people around us, but! are these thing right?

- Always good to think about the things we learnt from others, see the consequences.
- Most of the information we get daily, are noise, and want to disrupt our mind.



---

## How to use information is more important than clearly define what is information.



---

## Environment is a combination of entities.

Envirnments create an onion shape, individual inside, then community, team, society, world.



---

## Communication means the information flows around.



---

## People called notes as external brain, they're not, they cannot replace our thinking.

If we don't think, we are not using the brains.



---

## The most efficient way to use LLM is to distill it's knowledge.



---

## AI can or cannot think is not important, the question is if we can think.



---

## Life goals can be simple

- Keep a clear mind
- Eat well, sleep well
- Relax
- Find purpose
- Adapt to environment
- Keep the balance of life
- Don't go to self-destruction
- Have fun.



---

## Make wishes carefully

The world can make wishes come true, but can misinterprete them frequently.



---

## Abstract world is bigger than real world. And... we live in real world.



---

## Communication is the basic skill

- Communicate is the basic skill for any kinds of work, make a clear plan, self communication, communicate with others, design a complex system, etc.
- That's because an entity no matter how small like an atom or large like a world, is built by components, then coordinating by switching information, hence communication.



---

## How to solve hard questions

- Any kind of complex object, no matter how large or how small, they're built from lower level items or concepts
- When we cannot handle something, we can try to catch parts of it, identify key information, build a mind model piece by piece
- Finally we can grasp some tricks or general methods.
- Also the process of breaking complex to simple, then rebuild from bottom to top is a natural way to be better.



---

## How to set goals

- Find something we want to try, hobbies, trends, we can also borrow from other people's ideas
- Try, and have fun. We need some feedback from others, see some consequences.
- We want to know if we're thinking or doing in the right way. Are they what we expect or like or wish?
- Reevaluation our goals, if they're still what we want to do. If not, try a new one
- As we tried several times we may find something fits our path 道



---

## What we think and what we do defines who we're



---

## Understanding is simple

- Understanding is to build a model inside our mind
- Understanding is for doing something, achiving goals
- Starting with with some rough understanding and refine it during learning
- For hard to understand things, split them to simple questions
- Understanding is evolving during time



---

## 未雨绸缪



---

## How to be better

- By spliting complex to simple, we can refine things easily
- Be careful, perfection for solving real world goals is good, perfection but don't know why is not good.



---

## How personal growth works



---

## How to refine, basic ideas.



---

## How to learn, a simple way

- Learn basics, copy from other people.
- Try what you learn in real situation
- Evaluate errors, back to basic knowledge, understand what you don't understand.
- Try again, refine.
- At some point, we need find method in our way. That's fun.



---

## Different people understand things differently

- Because the world is big
- Because people see things from different angles
- The difference between people matters when we work together
- The world is big enough, build our ways of thinking
- Always there're different ways to see things, different narratives
- We don't have to know all, we just need the thing helps us.



---

## Memorizing is not understanding

- Forgetting is ok, if we never use them or won't use them
- As long as we know how to use knowledge to achieve our goal, it's ok
- We don't have to know all everything, and we won't have enough time to do it



---

## The mind model don't have to be perfect

- The essential things are that helps us do something or thinking now
- all knowledge is for now, not for past, not for potential future, no matter its historical thing or future prediction thing



---

## Note taking is to help us think

Without this in mind, using any tool is aiming for a problematic goal that takes myriads of time for perfection but achieving nothing.
- People often take a lot of notes, and use fancy tools
- We need tools that make think clearly and easily, not a fancy tool



---

## Note taking community has some common errors.

- In the note-taking community the hot topics are always about tools, methods, etc... which is misleading.
- I guess sometimes people get confused by their notes and the things they want to publish.
- Notes are drafts of thinking, scattered pieces.
- If we check the published drafts by famous designers, they're obscure and incomprehensible, because that fits to their ways of thinking, not designed for others.



---

## AI noting is meaningless.

- Using AI to take notes means, lack of thinking, it's not note taking.
- Notes remind us the thing we don't have to remember, and mind can use more power for thinking.



---

## Fear of missing out is dumb.

A frequently seen idea is "get most out of something", that's wrong, the question is **what is important to us**, because most things we see doesn't matter.



---

## Don't take notes for everything

- The number of ways to combine ideas or knowledge is bigger bigger bigger than the number of atoms in this universe
- For achieving a goal, the purpose is not to build a library that contains everything, and that thing won't exist in this world anyway
- The key question is what are **information**, what are **noise**, noises won't help us think



---

## Note taking is for doing something

- When we take notes, we also collect some documents, files.
- Current fashion around the world is to collect as much as possible, and to digest as less as possible. That's bad habit."]



---

## How to organize notes

- Don't take too many times, make it as simple as possible
- Notes are for thinking, as long as you can use the notes for your work, the whole thing is in good shape.
- Until you cannot use it think, then some cleanup work is required. (I doubt it)
- Notes which organized by project is better than organize then in topics, because project is our goal, not traditional topics.
- For notes we don't know where to categorize it, save then using today's date.
- Duplication of ideas is not a problem, ideas under different topics have different connotation, because the context are different.
- Scattered ideas are ok, find a tool to searching them.



---

## The idea of enlightenment has been greatly exaggerated.

得道这种事，不存在的。



---

## How to manage your essnetial data? (Expectations)

- It's not possible to do it perfectly, some issues will always be there, messy folders, missing files, broken hardware, safety issue
- The vital questions is, which things we care the most, we need safely keep them.



---

## How to categorize files

- Files and data should be separated into these categories for reducing confusion for ourselves
- Personal file and data
- Project data
- Other data collections



---

## Organize project files

- Project can stay for a long time, some ideas were tried, something is in pending, something is deleted.
- Organizing files by date is a good option.
- Organizing files by projects, not sub, sub projects, sub projects expends search time.
- Things are evolving, so the best way is starting from what we're doing



---

## Don't store data in your PC or Mac or computer

- When your computer got lost, you lost everything
- Have some backup using cloud storage, local external HDD (not SSD)
- Although backing up files are boring, losting data is the irresolvable trouble, more sever problem.



---

## If you're good at using computer, consider to have a NAS like server

- I **DON'T** recommend any commercial NAS products, just use Linix + Samba + encrypted HDD is enough
- Have 3 copy of your data, one in the computer, two offline
- You don't have to keep the NAS 24/7, only when you need it
- Don't use big disk like 10T+, the problems is mirroring the disk is slow, and when a harddisk is broken, you need waste hours to rebuild it from new one.
- SSD is not good for long time off-power storage, lost data.



---

## Consider use some cloud data storage

- Only for non sensitive data
- Commercial cloud storage services promise they will encrypt your data, but you cannot prove it, they cannot neither
- If encryption algorithms get broken by quantum computer, none of your data is safe
- Expect you data will be accessed by unknown person in the future



---

## For data security, no absolutely safe solution exists, but some are better than others

- The best way for data security is to not record the data, but we need record something
- The second best way for data security is to keep data always offline. It won't prevent you from lossing data at home, like computer failure.
- If you want to share files between different computers in local Wi-Fi network, NAS or customized NAS is good enough. You'll still face software glitch occationally.



---

## If you want to share files remotely, some cloud storage service is good enough.

- Choose the service that claim the encrypt the data, don't fully trust them because it's a black box
- The cloud storage is mostly bigger than the storage size of your local computer, so the true file won't be stored in your local machine, it's just a placeholder
- When you access it, the software will download it. Which means for file you always want to access even without internet, It's not a good solution.



---

## For important data, store self-encrypted version in cloud service, and also a local copy.



---

## Personal data storage is a distributed system.

- We store data in our phones, computers, or cloud services. Hence it's distributed everywhere. So, folder or files that are copies won't be updated at the same time.
- We cannot be sure all of them can be accessed all the time. Even we have a method to synchornize all devices, it may fail and some backup may broken.
- We should accept it, and make sure the important thing is to use our data to finish our work. Not pay to much time to make the system perfect, because it won't.



---

## All rules are tricks find by previous people



---

## Prose is not a good format for ideas.



---

## About how to do things, thinking is helping us do something.



---

## Keep a clear mind, know what happened around us, what is important, what we can do, what we cannot do.



---

## Simple tips to solve hard questions

- Don't be afraid of things that's hard, and know our limitation in present
- Relax and calm help us think and make good decisions, that doesn't mean tension is bad, depends on context
- If the mind is always in tension, soon it will feel burnout and will damage the mind
- Try to be analytical to the serious questions we're facing
- Split hard questions into simple things you can understand
- When hard problems are split to manageable ones we can estimate if we can solve the puzzle and how long it takes
- Be patient
- Have some fun of thinking or doing something
- Change angles of seeing things, try different ways
- If you find you're on the wrong path of thinking , stop, and consider another paths
- Thinking about the consequence if we plan to do or not to do
- Is the thing important?
- Is the consequence important?
- Collect or build some handy tools, physical tools or thinking tools
- Note down sometime we feel important or deserve some work in the future





